This bot watches the biography pages or sections on the personal websites of 14 confirmed or predicted 2024 presidential candidates, as well as the bot’s inspiration, George Santos. If this bot took user input, it would be helpful to take suggestions of new campaign pages/tabs to watch. With the current stage of the elections, many presumptive candidates haven't set up presidential-specific pages yet. It uses the library urlwatch to look for changes in the text between instances of the web pages when it runs, and successfully targets the biography text on each job. The most reliable way to trigger the jobs is typing “urlwatch” into the terminal to command them to run, which will create output both in the terminal and in Slack. The cleanliness of the output varies by job because the websites themselves vary in construction, but in general I would say they are all well targeted to the text I wanted to watch and the output is useful for a journalist covering campaigns. The output could be improved using urlwatch’s commands for the external library wdiff, but all attempts I made at loading and implementing the library using GitHub codespaces failed. I would have liked to have a clear, well formatted section with the previous text and another with the new text, but unfortunately that’s not how urlwatch works.

There were consistent problems with urlwatch locating and accessing its various files in GitHub codespaces, and it seems to be totally incompatible with GitHub Actions. I worked with ChatGPT to create a yaml file for my workflow, but ran into problems getting the action to run because the urls.yml file that the library automatically creates is not in the location that GitHub Actions wants to look. I’ve tried everything I can think of, and everything ChatGPT has suggested, but the bot still does not function with GitHub Actions. I’ve moved the urls.yml file in and out of the subfolders, run every variation of the file paths, and added ChatGPT’s suggested code that creates a new directory and file for urlwatch, which did make the action stop failing outright.  I even tried asking ChatGPT if it was possible to put all of the individual urlwatch jobs into the workflow, but that was not possible. The GitHub action will run now, but the output does not appear in Slack. Because the jobs all work correctly and output to Slack when prompted in the command line, and the workflow does not send any error messages, I can only guess that the problem is urlwatch not being compatible with GitHub Actions. The only forms of automation suggested in urlwatch’s documentation are crontab and the Windows Task Scheduler. I think nightly checks are a good schedule for updates, particularly because I have it configured to not send anything if there are no changes. This should be the type of bot that watches pages consistently, but only pops up on the rare occasion that a campaign bio page is actually changed to catch another Santos situation. Because the output of the bot is sparse and specific, I do not see a need to store the data outside of the Slack channel, but if a particular candidate was making lots of changes, it may be helpful to store each text instance in a spreadsheet to compare each change.

In general, ChatGPT was good at troubleshooting the error messages I fed it, but the AI does seem to know anything more about how GitHub and urlwatch interact than I do, because after a certain point it kept repeating the same suggestions. The best prompts seemed to be directly copied and pasted error messages, which ChatGPT was very good at fixing. When I tried asking questions about how urlwatch or GitHub Actions actually function, thoughit wasn’t able to explain anything to me. At some point of troubleshooting the workflow and moving files, urlwatch stopped recognizing the urls.yml file we had opened in codespaces, and the only reliable way to make changes to the jobs was using urlwatch’s built-in --edit command. 

I would definitely suggest that anyone using this library in this context only try to edit the urls.yml file in the terminal, and use the suggested scheduling system. The library isn’t built for codespaces or actions though, so my main suggestion would be to not use it in this context at all. I’m frustrated by the amount of time and effort I have spent tweaking and backtracking without being able to create successful automated output, much less refine that output into something user friendly. 
